
1. Dtsch Tierarztl Wochenschr. 1981 Jun 5;88(6):211-4.

[Initial peak as a result of an adaptation (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Kaemmerer K.


PMID: 7026205  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Cancer Res. 1982 Feb;42(2):660-6.

Quantitative determination of disseminated tumor cells by [3H]thymidine
incorporation in vitro and by agar colony formation.

Schirrmacher V, Waller CA.

A new microradioassay for the detection and quantification of disseminated tumor 
cells in blood and organ samples of tumor-bearing animals has been worked out in 
a murine total system for tumor metastasis. In contrast to previous prelabeling
or in situ labeling procedures, the basis of this assay is a postlabeling in
vitro of tumor cell-containing material with [3H]thymidine. Percoll gradient
fractionation and autoradiography revealed that most of the isotope was
incorporated into tumor cells. Titration curves with tumor cells from tissue
culture were run in parallel and allowed to calculate from the radioactivity of a
sample that actual number of proliferating tumor cells. The postlabeling assay
correlated fairly well with an agar colony test which measure the clonogenic or
stem cell potential of a tumor cell population. About 70% of syngeneic animals
which had been inoculated s.c. with ESb tumor cells showed increased
[3H]thymidine uptake in their blood, particularly at certain time intervals (11
and 21 days). None of these animals lived for more than 2 days longer. The
advantages of the new microradioassay and its possible prognostic significance
will be discussed.


PMID: 7034926  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1. J Sci Food Agric. 1981 Sep;32(9):857-62.

Detection and partial characterisation of subtilisin inhibitors in legume seeds
by isoelectric focusing.

Chavan JK, Hejgaard J.

DOI: 10.1002/jsfa.2740320903 
PMID: 7026897  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Ann Plast Surg. 1981 Mar;6(3):215-23.

Evaluation of clinical microvascular anastomoses--reasons for failure.

Lidman D, Daniel RK.

Thrombosis in clinical microvascular anastomoses is attributed to suture errors
and utilization of severely damaged recipient arteries. Histopathological
specimens from 24 microvascular anastomoses and 77 vessel biopsies from free
tissue transfers and replantation cases were analyzed. Suture errors of any note 
were rare and occurred primarily in replantation cases in which team experience
varied and fatigue was common. Recipient artery damage ranged from minimal to
severe; clinical analysis confirmed the devastating effect of refractory spasm
associated with intramural scarring from previous trauma. Additional studies by
microvascular groups are needed to clarify the causes of thrombosis and the
healing mechanism of microvascular anastomosis.

DOI: 10.1097/00000637-198103000-00008 
PMID: 7015978  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Bull World Health Organ. 1982;60(4):605-13.

The magnitude of the global problem of acute diarrhoeal disease: a review of
active surveillance data.

Snyder JD, Merson MH.

PIP: Data from 24 published studies were anlayzed in order to estimate the annual
morbidity and mortality from acute diarrheal diseases in the developing world. 22
of the studies involved frequent surveillance through home visits to families in 
communities; the other 2 were multicountry studies in which diarrhea mortality
was calculated on the basis of death certificate information. Morbidity rates
were found to be highest in the 6-11 month age group, while the mortality rates
were greatest in infants under 1 year of age and children 1 year old. For
children under 5 years of age, the median incidence of diarhhea was 2.2
episodes/child/year for all studies and 3.0 episodes/child/year for the studies
that had the smallest populations and most frequent surveillance. Using 1980
population estimates, the estimated total yearly morbidity and mortality from
diarrheal diseases for children under 5 years of age in Africa, Asia (excluding
China), and Latin America were 744-1000 million episodes and 4.6 million deaths. 
(author's)

PMCID: PMC2536091
PMID: 6982783  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Science. 1982 Feb 5;215(4533):687-9.

Cytoplasmic inclusion bodies in Escherichia coli producing biosynthetic human
insulin proteins.

Williams DC, Van Frank RM, Muth WL, Burnett JP.

Escherichia coli that has been genetically manipulated by recombinant DNA
technology to synthesize human insulin polypeptides (A chain, B chain, or
proinsulin) contains prominent cytoplasmic inclusion bodies. The amount of
inclusion product within the cells corresponds to the quantity of chimeric
protein formed by the bacteria. At peak production, the inclusion bodies may
occupy as much as 20 percent of the Escherichia coli cellular volume.

DOI: 10.1126/science.7036343 
PMID: 7036343  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Science. 1982 Feb 5;215(4533):685-7.

Uninvolved skin from psoriatic patients develops signs of involved psoriatic skin
after being grafted onto nude mice.

Fraki JE, Briggaman RA, Lazarus GS.

Clinically involved psoriatic epidermis maintains its histological appearance,
increased labeling index, and increased level of plasminogen activator after
being grafted onto athymic nude mice. Uninvolved psoriatic epidermis develops
increases in plasminogen activator activity after being grafted onto athymic nude
mice; this is accompanied by an increased labeling index. Thus, psoriatic skin
can develop markers of psoriasis independent of the host.

DOI: 10.1126/science.7036342 
PMID: 7036342  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1. J Health Polit Policy Law. 1981 Fall;6(3):444-62.

Nurse practitioner reimbursement.

Wriston S.

The Rural Health Clinics Act demonstrates the current trend in reimbursement of
nurse practitioners: Congress intends to move slowly and continuously with
mid-level practitioner reimbursement, limiting NP practice first to rural
underserved areas, and reimbursing at a cost-related rate to avoid unnecessarily 
inflating costs. The Act's recognition of the NP as a reimbursable provider of
traditional medical services, needing only indirect supervision, is important,
especially with regard to the mandatory Medicaid coverage of "rural health clinic
services." All states which do not explicitly prohibit NPs have been affected by 
this mandate, precipitating state legislative efforts to more clearly define NP
scope of practice. There is still a need to clarify the ambiguity surrounding NP 
Medicaid reimbursement policies; Medicaid plans are frequently not well
coordinated with nurse practice statutes. Altering third-party payor practices to
permit reimbursement for services of nurse practitioners would alleviate some of 
the current restrictions on NP practice. However, medical society opposition also
plays a significant role in such restriction. Antitrust courts, free of the
tremendous lobbying power of medical interest groups, may be able to provide
remedies which will facilitate greater competition and innovation in the health
care industry. Legal test cases are necessary to begin contesting obstacles to
the implementation of the Rural Health Clinic Services Act. The aggregate surplus
of physicians projected for 1990 will continue to be an issue in the development 
of new financial programs concerning NP services. Demonstration projects which
utilize various reimbursement strategies should evaluate the effect on health
manpower of reimbursement for medical services provided by nurse practitioners.

DOI: 10.1215/03616878-6-3-444 
PMID: 7033348  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Orv Hetil. 1981 Aug 30;122(35):2141-4.

[Immunologic studies in systemic lupus erythematosus. Prognostic value of the
studies].

[Article in Hungarian]

Gergely P.


PMID: 7029402  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Can Med Assoc J. 1981 Jun 15;124(12):1559-65, 1570.

Essential tremor.

Murray TJ.

Essential tremor, including the juvenile and senile variations, may be a result
of a disorder of the servomechanism that controls physiologic tremor. Hands and
arms are affected most commonly, and the tremor can vary in amplitude as well as 
frequency. Long-term treatment with propranolol has been helpful for some
patients, although older patients are less likely to benefit. Other drugs and
behaviour modification therapy have been less successful. Surgical treatment is
effective but should probably be reserved for severe cases. An effective
instrument for measuring the subjective and objective aspects of the tremor is
still needed, as is an effective long-term method of treatment.


PMCID: PMC1862527
PMID: 7018658  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

